doc/develop/toolchains/designware_arc_mwdt.rst, before:

.. _toolchain_designware_arc_mwdt:

DesignWare ARC MetaWare Development Toolkit (MWDT)
##################################################

#. You need to have `ARC MWDT
   <https://www.synopsys.com/dw/ipdir.php?ds=sw_metaware>`_ installed on your
   host.

#. :ref:`Set these environment variables <env_vars>`:

   - Set :envvar:`ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT` to ``arcmwdt``.
   - Set :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` to the toolchain installation
     directory. MWDT installation provides :envvar:`METAWARE_ROOT` so simply set
     :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` to ``$METAWARE_ROOT/../`` (Linux)
     or ``%METAWARE_ROOT%\..\`` (Windows)

#. To check that you have set these variables correctly in your current
   environment, follow these example shell sessions (the
   :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` values may be different on your system):

   .. code-block:: console

      # Linux:
      $ echo $ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT
      arcmwdt
      $ echo $ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH
      /home/you/ARC/MWDT_2019.12/

      # Windows:
      > echo %ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT%
      arcmwdt
      > echo %ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH%
      C:\ARC\MWDT_2019.12\

Commit message:

ARC: doc overhaul for nSIM board (with few fixes to MWDT docs)
Completely rewrite nSIM board documentation with additional fixes
to ARC MWDT toolchain documentation.

(cherry picked from commit c2f52a7548635593c793f590408144541a75b8f2)

Original-Signed-off-by: Eugeniy Paltsev <Eugeniy.Paltsev@synopsys.com>
Original-Signed-off-by: Evgeniy Paltsev <PaltsevEvgeniy@gmail.com>
GitOrigin-RevId: c2f52a7548635593c793f590408144541a75b8f2
Change-Id: Iddea5c3d8581138778a807d28e0157fd3454b551
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromiumos/third_party/zephyr/+/4267324
Commit-Queue: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>
Tested-by: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>
Tested-by: CopyBot Service Account <copybot.service@gmail.com>

doc/develop/toolchains/designware_arc_mwdt.rst, after:

.. _toolchain_designware_arc_mwdt:

DesignWare ARC MetaWare Development Toolkit (MWDT)
##################################################

#. You need to have `ARC MWDT
   <https://www.synopsys.com/dw/ipdir.php?ds=sw_metaware>`_ installed on your
   host.

#. :ref:`Set these environment variables <env_vars>`:

   - Set :envvar:`ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT` to ``arcmwdt``.
   - Set :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` to the toolchain installation
     directory. MWDT installation provides :envvar:`METAWARE_ROOT` so simply set
     :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` to ``$METAWARE_ROOT/../`` (Linux)
     or ``%METAWARE_ROOT%\..\`` (Windows)

   .. note::
      Even though ARC MWDT compiler is used for Zephyr RTOS sources compilation, still the GNU
      preprocessor & GNU objcopy might be used for some steps like DTS preprocessing and ``.bin``
      file generation. Hence we need to have either ARC or host GNU tools in :envvar:`PATH`.
      Currently Zephyr looks for:

      * objcopy binaries: ``arc-elf32-objcopy`` or ``arc-linux-objcopy`` or ``objcopy``
      * gcc binaries: ``arc-elf32-gcc`` or ``arc-linux-gcc`` or ``gcc``

      This list can be extended or modified in future.

#. To check that you have set these variables correctly in your current
   environment, follow these example shell sessions (the
   :envvar:`ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH` values may be different on your system):

   .. code-block:: console

      # Linux:
      $ echo $ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT
      arcmwdt
      $ echo $ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH
      /home/you/ARC/MWDT_2019.12/

      # Windows:
      > echo %ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT%
      arcmwdt
      > echo %ARCMWDT_TOOLCHAIN_PATH%
      C:\ARC\MWDT_2019.12\
