doc/services/dsp/index.rst, before:

.. _zdsp_api:

Digital Signal Processing (DSP)
###############################

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

The DSP API provides an architecture agnostic way for signal processing.
Currently, the API will work on any architecture but will likely not be
optimized. The status of the various architectures can be found below:

============ =============
Architecture Status
============ =============
ARC          Unoptimized
ARM          Optimized
ARM64        Optimized
MIPS         Unoptimized
NIOS2        Unoptimized
POSIX        Unoptimized
RISCV        Unoptimized
RISCV64      Unoptimized
SPARC        Unoptimized
X86          Unoptimized
XTENSA       Unoptimized
============ =============

Using zDSP
**********

zDSP provides various backend options which are selected automatically for the
application. By default, including the CMSIS module will enable all
architectures to use the zDSP APIs. This can be done by setting::

	CONFIG_CMSIS_DSP=y

If your application requires some additional customization, it's possible to
enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DSP_BACKEND_CUSTOM` which means that the
application is responsible for providing the implementation of the zDSP
library.

Optimizing for your architecture
********************************

If your architecture is showing as ``Unoptimized``, it's possible to add a new
zDSP backend to better support it. To do that, a new Kconfig option should be
added to `subsys/dsp/Kconfig`_ along with the required dependencies and the
``default`` set for ``DSP_BACKEND`` Kconfig choice.

Next, the implementation should be added at ``subsys/dsp/<backend>/`` and
linked in at `subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt`_.

API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: math_dsp

.. _subsys/dsp/Kconfig: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/subsys/dsp/Kconfig
.. _subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt

Commit message:

zdsp: add ARC DSPLIB backend for zdsp
Introduce ARC DSPLIB backend zdsp library for ARC target.
Add agu and restrict attributes to map with ARC DSPLIB

(cherry picked from commit b475e1fcbf4f674742b54629b181068bf7ebb863)

Original-Signed-off-by: Siyuan Cheng <siyuanc@synopsys.com>
GitOrigin-RevId: b475e1fcbf4f674742b54629b181068bf7ebb863
Change-Id: I90972593d50830e9701994c58d3290c7b7c8651d
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromiumos/third_party/zephyr/+/4277213
Reviewed-by: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>
Tested-by: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>
Tested-by: CopyBot Service Account <copybot.service@gmail.com>
Commit-Queue: Al Semjonovs <asemjonovs@google.com>

doc/services/dsp/index.rst, after:

.. _zdsp_api:

Digital Signal Processing (DSP)
###############################

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

The DSP API provides an architecture agnostic way for signal processing.
Currently, the API will work on any architecture but will likely not be
optimized. The status of the various architectures can be found below:

============ =============
Architecture Status
============ =============
ARC          Optimized
ARM          Optimized
ARM64        Optimized
MIPS         Unoptimized
NIOS2        Unoptimized
POSIX        Unoptimized
RISCV        Unoptimized
RISCV64      Unoptimized
SPARC        Unoptimized
X86          Unoptimized
XTENSA       Unoptimized
============ =============

Using zDSP
**********

zDSP provides various backend options which are selected automatically for the
application. By default, including the CMSIS module will enable all
architectures to use the zDSP APIs. This can be done by setting::

	CONFIG_CMSIS_DSP=y

If your application requires some additional customization, it's possible to
enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DSP_BACKEND_CUSTOM` which means that the
application is responsible for providing the implementation of the zDSP
library.

Optimizing for your architecture
********************************

If your architecture is showing as ``Unoptimized``, it's possible to add a new
zDSP backend to better support it. To do that, a new Kconfig option should be
added to :file:`subsys/dsp/Kconfig` along with the required dependencies and the
``default`` set for ``DSP_BACKEND`` Kconfig choice.

Next, the implementation should be added at ``subsys/dsp/<backend>/`` and
linked in at :file:`subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt`. To add architecture-specific attributes,
its corresponding Kconfig option should be added to :file:`subsys/dsp/Kconfig` and use
them to update ``DSP_DATA`` and ``DSP_STATIC_DATA`` in :file:`include/zephyr/dsp/dsp.h`.

API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: math_dsp

.. _subsys/dsp/Kconfig: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/subsys/dsp/Kconfig
.. _subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/subsys/dsp/CMakeLists.txt
.. _include/zephyr/dsp/dsp.h: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/include/zephyr/dsp/dsp.h
