samples/drivers/ipm/ipm_esp32/README.rst, before:

.. _ipm_esp32:

ESP32 Soft-IPM example
######################

Overview
********
This simple example can be used with multicore ESP32 Soc, and demonstrates
the software intercore messaging mechanism to be used in AMP applications.

ESP32 has two CPU named APP and PRO, in this simple example PRO send a
message to the APP using the IPM driver, and waits for the APP response
message and prints its contents on console.

ESP32 intercore messaging has up two four channels, the 0 and 1 are
reserved for BT and WIFI messages, and channels 2 and 3 is free to
any application, each channel supports up to 64 bytes of data per
message, so high level protocol is responsible to fragment larger
messages in chunks of 64bytes.

Building and Running the Zephyr Code
************************************

The sample requires two build commands to run, first of all
you need to build the esp32_net firmware as follows:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/drivers/ipm/ipm_esp32/ipm_esp32_net
   :board: esp32_net
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Copy output file build/zephyr/esp32_net_firmware.c to samples/drivers/ipm/ipm_esp32/src,
then build the main project and flash as stated earlier, and you would see the following output:

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v3.0.0-1911-g610f489c861e  ***
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response

Commit message:

samples: ipm_esp32: use net core source from build ouput
Current ipm_esp32 sample code requires esp32_net_firmware.c file
as source input, which is generated after ipm_esp32_net build.
esp32_net_firmware.c was manually added as binary blob, which needs to
be removed from the repository.

This change modifies ipm_esp32 CMakeLists.txt to include the build
output of ipm_esp32_net as input source of ipm_esp32 build, allowing the
binary blob to be removed.

Current approach shall be updated during next release.

(cherry picked from commit f433e95262487f92113663d7c0ceb08b1a821399)

Original-Signed-off-by: Sylvio Alves <sylvio.alves@espressif.com>
GitOrigin-RevId: f433e95262487f92113663d7c0ceb08b1a821399
Change-Id: I9ba0066a52f8b7aeffa78edbc3632b3ec5409c2a
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromiumos/third_party/zephyr/+/4263769
Tested-by: CopyBot Service Account <copybot.service@gmail.com>
Reviewed-by: Tristan Honscheid <honscheid@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Tristan Honscheid <honscheid@google.com>
Tested-by: Tristan Honscheid <honscheid@google.com>

samples/drivers/ipm/ipm_esp32/README.rst, after:

.. _ipm_esp32:

ESP32 Soft-IPM example
######################

Overview
********
This simple example can be used with multicore ESP32 Soc, and demonstrates
the software intercore messaging mechanism to be used in AMP applications.

ESP32 has two CPU named APP and PRO, in this simple example PRO send a
message to the APP using the IPM driver, and waits for the APP response
message and prints its contents on console.

ESP32 intercore messaging has up two four channels, the 0 and 1 are
reserved for BT and WIFI messages, and channels 2 and 3 is free to
any application, each channel supports up to 64 bytes of data per
message, so high level protocol is responsible to fragment larger
messages in chunks of 64bytes.

Building and Running the Zephyr Code
************************************

Build the ESP32 IPM sample code as follows:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/drivers/ipm/ipm_esp32
   :board: esp32
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
*************

To check the output of this sample, run ``west espressif monitor`` or any other serial
console program (e.g., minicom, putty, screen, etc).

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v3.3.0-rc3-38-gc9225e4365b9  ***
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
   PRO_CPU is sending a fake request, waiting remote response...
   PRO_CPU received a message from APP_CPU : APP_CPU: This is a response
